# Overview
Sealant offers simple utilities and testing tools based around modules like `secrets`, `hashlib`, and [cryptography](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/).  All files can be run via a CLI or, relevant classes can be imported into your python project.  

Because this project is in alpha, this README is subject to change frequently. For now, the content below only reflects information related to the available modules.  

## Compatibility 

The standalone executable has no dependencies beyond an OS-level source of random number generation.  This is usually provided by default and shouldn't require any action on your end.

If you want to run the .py file directly, or import the relevant class into your own project, Python 2.7 and Python 3.2+ are supported.  

## randstr - Random String Generation

randstr uses Python's `random.SystemRandom` class to retrieve random values generated by the host operating system.  Windows systems provide this functionality through `CryptGenRandom()` while *nix systems use `/dev/urandom`.  While these sources should be available, if not present, a `NotImplemented` error will be raised.

Importantly, `SystemRandom` can be used for generating cryptographically secure random values that are useful in areas like password generation, or account authentication. The documentation for Python's [secrets module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/secrets.html), which relies on `SystemRandom` for its random number generation, provides a more detailed explanation of the benefits.  

While randstr ultimately uses `SystemRandom`, the route it takes to get there is dependent on either the Python version of the host system, or if the executable version is being used.  Python 3.6+ will make use of the secrets module while Python 2.7 and Python 3.2+ uses `random.SystemRandom`.  The difference in which module used is arbitrary; both methods use `SystemRandom` for random number generation.

### Features

randstr provides an interface for generating random data in the form of strings by pulling randomly generated values through `SystemRandom`.  The length of the string is defined by the user; the only limiting factor is performance considerations for extremely large (10,000+ character) strings.  The default character set used for string generations is made up of the following:
  
  1. ASCII uppercase
  2. ASCII lowercase
  3. ASCII punctuation
  4. Single whitespace character

The default character set can be replaced by the user if desired.  String output is available through any combination of the following:

  1. Auto-copy to clipboard
  2. Terminal printout
  3. `.txt` file


## Additional Contributers

**P. Robertson** - User experience consolation 





